cursor_docs/currentTask.md, before:

# Voice Inbox App — Current Task

[Roadmap](projectRoadmap.md) | [Task](currentTask.md) | [Stack](techStack.md) | [Summary](codebaseSummary.md)

## Repository

[GitHub Repository](https://github.com/Senn-01/voice-inbox-app)

## Current Objective

Set up the project structure and implement the MVP components:

1. Create the FastAPI backend with SQLite database
2. Build the iOS SwiftUI recording interface
3. Implement the transcription service
4. Create the basic web UI with HTMX + Alpine.js
5. Add tests and deployment configuration

## Context

We're starting from the project specification in `Project-spec.md` and implementing the MVP phase. Based on the advice in `advices.md`, we'll need to be careful about several potential issues including permissions, concurrency, and error handling.

## Next Steps

1. **Backend Setup** (Completed)
   - [x] Create project directory structure
   - [x] Initialize FastAPI application
   - [x] Create SQLite database schema
   - [x] Implement `/inbox` endpoint
   - [x] Implement `/classify` endpoint
   - [x] Add error handling for API calls
   - [x] Create HTMX + Alpine.js interface
   - [x] Create Dockerfile for deployment

2. **iOS App** (Completed)
   - [x] Create Xcode project structure
   - [x] Implement recording functionality
   - [x] Add microphone permissions
   - [x] Create transcription service placeholder
   - [x] Create API service placeholder
   - [x] Implement local database with GRDB
   - [x] Implement synchronization service
   - [x] Update UI to show sync status

3. **Testing & Deployment** (Completed)
   - [x] Create backend tests with pytest
   - [x] Create iOS database tests
   - [x] Update database paths for deployment
   - [x] Add Fly.io configuration

4. **Final Steps** (Current Focus)
   - [x] Deploy to Fly.io
   - [x] Update backend for Whisper transcription
   - [ ] Update iOS app to use backend transcription
   - [ ] Test full system with real data
   - [ ] Final documentation updates

## Recent Progress

The backend implementation has been completed with the following features:
- FastAPI server with SQLite database
- `/inbox` endpoint for adding new items
- `/classify/{item_id}` endpoint for GPT-4.1 classification
- `/transcribe` endpoint for audio transcription using Whisper
- Basic HTMX + Alpine.js web interface
- Docker configuration for deployment
- Tests with pytest
- Successfully deployed to Fly.io at https://voice-inbox-api.fly.dev/

iOS app has been fully structured with:
- Basic SwiftUI interface with recording button
- RecorderViewModel to handle audio recording
- TranscriptionService updated to use backend API
- APIService implementation for backend communication
- DatabaseService using GRDB for local SQLite storage
- SyncService to handle synchronization with the backend
- UI updated to show sync status and controls
- Unit tests for database operations

The next focus is testing the full recording-to-transcription flow using the deployed backend API.

## Deployment Instructions

The backend with Whisper transcription has been successfully deployed to Fly.io. For reference, the deployment steps were:

1. Install the Fly CLI: `brew install flyctl`
2. Login to Fly: `fly auth login`
3. Navigate to the backend directory: `cd voice-inbox/backend`
4. Create a volume for data persistence: `fly volumes create voice_inbox_data --size 1`
5. Deploy the app: `fly deploy`
6. Set the OpenAI API key: `fly secrets set OPENAI_API_KEY=your_key_here`

If the app requires restarting:
1. Check machine status: `fly machines list -a voice-inbox-api`
2. Restart if needed: `fly machines restart <machine-id> -a voice-inbox-api`

## Next Steps

1. Test the transcription endpoint:
   ```bash
   curl -F "audio=@sample.m4a" https://voice-inbox-api.fly.dev/transcribe
   ```

2. Test from the iOS app:
   - Launch the iOS app
   - Record audio
   - Verify it's sent to the backend for transcription

3. Add monitoring and health checks:
   - Consider adding a simple `/health` endpoint 
   - Set up basic logging and monitoring

## Version History
- 2023-07-17  v0.1  Initial task list created
- 2023-07-17  v0.2  Updated with backend implementation progress
- 2023-07-17  v0.3  Updated with iOS app structure progress
- 2023-07-17  v0.4  Updated with GRDB and sync service implementation
- 2023-07-17  v0.5  Updated with testing and deployment progress
- 2023-07-18  v1.0  Updated with successful deployment to Fly.io
- 2023-07-18  v1.1  Updated with backend transcription approach
- 2023-07-18  v1.2  Updated with successful Whisper transcription deployment

Commit message:

docs: add iOS implementation status and build fix guides

cursor_docs/currentTask.md, after:

# Voice Inbox App — Current Task

[Roadmap](projectRoadmap.md) | [Task](currentTask.md) | [Stack](techStack.md) | [Summary](codebaseSummary.md)

## Repository

[GitHub Repository](https://github.com/Senn-01/voice-inbox-app)

## Current Objective

Set up the project structure and implement the MVP components:

1. Create the FastAPI backend with SQLite database
2. Build the iOS SwiftUI recording interface
3. Implement the transcription service
4. Create the basic web UI with HTMX + Alpine.js
5. Add tests and deployment configuration

## Context

We're starting from the project specification in `Project-spec.md` and implementing the MVP phase. Based on the advice in `advices.md`, we'll need to be careful about several potential issues including permissions, concurrency, and error handling.

## Next Steps

1. **Backend Setup** (Completed)
   - [x] Create project directory structure
   - [x] Initialize FastAPI application
   - [x] Create SQLite database schema
   - [x] Implement `/inbox` endpoint
   - [x] Implement `/classify` endpoint
   - [x] Add error handling for API calls
   - [x] Create HTMX + Alpine.js interface
   - [x] Create Dockerfile for deployment

2. **iOS App** (In Progress)
   - [x] Create Xcode project structure
   - [x] Implement recording functionality
   - [x] Add microphone permissions
   - [x] Create transcription service placeholder
   - [x] Create API service placeholder
   - [x] Implement local database with GRDB
   - [x] Implement synchronization service
   - [x] Update UI to show sync status
   - [ ] Fix GRDB build issues (blocker)
   - [ ] Test with deployed backend API

3. **Testing & Deployment** (Completed)
   - [x] Create backend tests with pytest
   - [x] Create iOS database tests
   - [x] Update database paths for deployment
   - [x] Add Fly.io configuration
   - [x] Create detailed Fly.io deployment guide

4. **Final Steps** (Current Focus)
   - [x] Deploy to Fly.io
   - [x] Update backend for Whisper transcription
   - [x] Create troubleshooting documentation for Fly.io deployment
   - [x] Document existing iOS implementation status
   - [ ] Resolve iOS GRDB build issues
   - [ ] Test full system with real data
   - [ ] Final documentation updates

## Recent Progress

The backend implementation has been completed with the following features:
- FastAPI server with SQLite database
- `/inbox` endpoint for adding new items
- `/classify/{item_id}` endpoint for GPT-4.1 classification
- `/transcribe` endpoint for audio transcription using Whisper
- Basic HTMX + Alpine.js web interface
- Docker configuration for deployment
- Tests with pytest
- Successfully deployed to Fly.io at https://voice-inbox-api.fly.dev/
- Created comprehensive Fly.io deployment guide with troubleshooting steps

iOS app has been fully structured with:
- Basic SwiftUI interface with recording button
- RecorderViewModel to handle audio recording
- TranscriptionService updated to use backend API
- APIService implementation for backend communication
- DatabaseService using GRDB for local SQLite storage
- SyncService to handle synchronization with the backend
- UI updated to show sync status and controls
- Unit tests for database operations

Current blockers:
- GRDB build issues in the iOS app preventing successful compilation
- Options to fix: use specific GRDB version (6.15.0) or switch to SQLite.swift

The next focus is resolving the GRDB issues and testing the full recording-to-transcription flow using the deployed backend API.

## Deployment Instructions

The backend with Whisper transcription has been successfully deployed to Fly.io. For reference, the deployment steps were:

1. Install the Fly CLI: `brew install flyctl`
2. Login to Fly: `fly auth login`
3. Navigate to the backend directory: `cd voice-inbox/backend`
4. Create a Fly app: `fly launch --name voice-inbox-api`
5. Create a volume for data persistence: `fly volumes create voice_inbox_data --size 1 --app voice-inbox-api`
6. Deploy the app: `fly deploy`
7. Set the OpenAI API key: `fly secrets set OPENAI_API_KEY=your_key_here`

Detailed deployment instructions and troubleshooting steps are available in the [Fly.io Deployment Guide](flyioDeployment.md).

## Next Steps

1. Fix iOS build issues by:
   - Using a specific version of GRDB (6.15.0)
   - OR replacing GRDB with SQLite.swift

2. Test the transcription endpoint:
   ```bash
   curl -F "audio=@sample.m4a" https://voice-inbox-api.fly.dev/transcribe
   ```

3. Test from the iOS app:
   - Launch the iOS app
   - Record audio
   - Verify it's sent to the backend for transcription

4. Add monitoring and health checks:
   - Consider adding a simple `/health` endpoint 
   - Set up basic logging and monitoring

## Version History
- 2023-07-17  v0.1  Initial task list created
- 2023-07-17  v0.2  Updated with backend implementation progress
- 2023-07-17  v0.3  Updated with iOS app structure progress
- 2023-07-17  v0.4  Updated with GRDB and sync service implementation
- 2023-07-17  v0.5  Updated with testing and deployment progress
- 2023-07-18  v1.0  Updated with successful deployment to Fly.io
- 2023-07-18  v1.1  Updated with backend transcription approach
- 2023-07-18  v1.2  Updated with successful Whisper transcription deployment
- 2023-04-23  v1.3  Added Fly.io deployment guide and updated deployment instructions
- 2023-04-23  v1.4  Documented existing iOS app implementation and current issues
